So a lot of what's common in rock-a-billy
music and early music like that, a lot of
Western music, Country and Western music,
early country, was the use of a large reverb,
but most commonly it was a slap back delay.
And that's an effect that was more or less
honed in on over the years and you can get
that effect with a delay pedal.
To achieve that setting what you want is you
want a very quick response from the note or
chord that you played.
It's not a stereo effect, but it is a direct
sample that happens in you know, a millisecond
later.
You're not really thinking about milliseconds.
You're really just trying to get the quickest
response; so that it sounds like the note
or chord you played is bouncing off a wall
right back at you or you're in a cavernous
hall or recording studio; to get that effect
of space.
So what I've done here in order to achieve
this slap back delay is I have the; let's
start on the right; I have the blend setting
right about 12 o'clock, so that I'm getting
an even amount of clean sound from my guitar
versus the effect level.
The middle is the feedback, which is pretty
far down, I'd say about 9 o'clock.
If you listen, what ends up happening is it
reacts with the delay setting which is next
to it.
The delay is; let's go over here to the knob
on the left.
Now you're hearing a little bit of the pitch
shift and that is very common in the analog
delay pedals.
Because the tape delays that they had such
as the Echoplex; when you would adjust the
delay setting and the speed you would slow
down the tape; and you would get almost like
the loop would slow down, so fast that you
would almost a pitch shift.
That's not intentional, but it is an effect
that you can use with these pedals that's
pretty cool.
So as I increase the delay setting, you hear
that?
That's the delay time, so what you're hearing
is you're hearing the amount of time in between
each note, increasing or decreasing in speed.
As I decrease the knob, you hear it's pretty
quick.
Now if you adjust the feedback setting, let's
see how that is.
So now what we're doing is we're increasing
to a minimum and maximum level of the amount
of the repeats.
Speed of repeat with the delay setting, amount
of repeats with the feedback setting.
And as far as the language, every pedal has
a different way of-- a different name they
may call it, but that's basically it.